Thank you again very much everyone. Rakhidele is everyone. Rakhidele, thank you. Rakhidele is
everyone.
Again, we're going to touch to the verse or teaching of the gracious, kindness, compassionate
teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, which is clear and summarized with clarity and summarized by the very, very
famous master in the 20th century.
And known as His Holiness, Dudnur Rinpoche, or Chabjie Dudnur Rinpoche, many of you know, we met,
we had the fortune to meet these great masters. Even though you didn't meet, many of you all
connected.
We're sharing the same teaching that we want to give. We're following that light.
So it's just really wonderful. It's authentic lineage teaching of loving kindness and compassion
and wisdom.
And therefore, again, we activated our joy and appreciation and both each other and the purity
understand or the realization of the Vajrayana teaching. Those are the motivations and those are
the intentions. We have to prepare the intention perfectly, beautifully, as much as we can go
through.
And then that way the Dharma in the teaching said that nectar of Dharma will absorb in the heart.
It's not interfered by the skeptical, ego-clinging, and suspicious, and intellectual, and all those
unnecessary thoughts. We have so many which are really not going to benefit too much. Generally,
it is always undermining wherever we have that. Whether it's Dharma or whether even in Samsara,
if we have that so many times, maybe let it be okay. But if we carry that all the time,
it undermines the growth of whatever the success of the Dharma and as well as Samsara.
So therefore, this time, particularly Dharma is more focused on the mind. Teaching is more focused
on the mind. Mind and therefore preparation can prepare ourselves, ready to bring that
collet which is kind of hidden behind of the midst of all those conceptions are
unbeneficial. We bring the light up that. That is the powerful beginning practices.
What the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamali, said, "If the beginning is good,
it will bring the middle is good." If we continue to carry that thought, then ending will be good.
So this all depends how we start that. It's really important. Then all total will become
so beautiful. A hundred percent from top to bottom of the middle and every side.
And therefore, the intention is so important. And I'm reminding to all of us, to you and to me,
that's the really we all need, every achieve. And with those beautiful intention thought,
now we go to the teaching itself. And we are going through this poor wealth of the
practitioners or the Dharma practitioners, by his only the neurons, which highlighted
that whole. So we went first, among the four, we went first through. We went really first through.
And as I said, this full wealth that we have, we're never going to feel poverty or shortage.
Our spiritual realization or Dharma realization practices will be abundance.
It's not going to fade away or it's not going to expire. There's no, if we really keep this
this fall, now always refreshing and not just only that we are activating and it brings the growth,
development. It will bring the development. That means what development? Relation.
Relation, what? Loving kindness, compassion, joy and appreciation, all that what we said,
the motivation, those all just really shine beautifully. And then it defeated all those
ego clings, duality, or somebody, it will reducing that strength.
Strength, as much as we did that and then same time in the Buddha teaching is that the merit will
gain.
Merit is taking places now. Not obscuration is taking places and our mind streams.
It's not. We're taking, we're turning the page. We're changing the directions. We're changing the
course in our maybe first time in our lives because of the great teaching of the Buddha
Shakyamuni, the great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni. And therefore it's so, I mean this fall is so
important. And now what in the teachings here, his own union we said here, we go through. The
bodhicata of compassion towards all mother sentient beings. This we know, we all know.
What can we know? We know at least intellectually we know. We received this teaching so many times
from our great masters. And our Sangha members also maybe released many times mentioning this
Sangha members. Our friend, spiritual friend is talking that. So we know intellectually. But
now it's knowing is not enough. We have to activate it again. And we said, you know, bodhicata
is the essence of generally the Buddha teaching. Whether it is the Thera-Buddha school, whether it
is the Mahayana, Sutra-Mahayana school, whether it is Vaidyana-Mahayana school, the Buddha teaching
is best upon the compassion, loving kindness. Because of that, Buddha teaching is known as
non-violence. Because of that, Buddha teaching is known as respecting and appreciating to every
living beings. No one is excluded from the compassion. And Mahayana, it highlights very much.
That's called, that's what many great masters, many practitioners said that we heard, we all heard
that.
Because of bodhicata is not Mahayana teaching is known as Mahayana. Mahayana is Sanskrit world.
And which is great week or great yana. Because who makes that? What is the cause of that?
Principally cause of this bodhicata. Bodhicata can be divided into two you all know,
related to bodhicata, absolute true bodhicata. These two bodhicata, max Mahayana, S-Mahayana,
and Vaidyana, S-Mahayana. Without the bodhicata, there is just, it's talk. It's talk. It's a,
can't relate what's called leap service. It's no, no meaning behind. When you have the bodhicata,
according to teaching, according to all the great master that we had opportunity to meet,
then Mahayana becomes the Mahayana, or S-Mahayana becomes S-Mahayana, and Vaidyana becomes the
Vaidyana, Mahayana, or the Diamond Wake Up. Then it truly has become Diamond Wake Up.
Diamond Wake Up. Otherwise, it is a name. Just name. That not going to serve the purpose. Maybe
it's working for a short time to show up that, but in reality, there is no growth. Developing.
It's only on the surface. So therefore, we have to activate this really bodhicata. For that reason,
great Master Papaji probably said, many times you heard. I also mentioned, if you have one thing,
one practice, that will be enough to reach enlightenment, or to become Buddha. If you
don't have one practices, no matter whatever we practices, it won't go lead any further.
What is that practices? That practice is bodhicata.
And for that reason, the unmysticity cause of the Buddhahood is bodhicata. For that reason,
I pay respect, or I pay homage. I pay homage. That's what great Master Papaji said.
I mean, it's not just him. Everyone, one voice from India, all the great Master of all the schools
of turbid Buddhism, and who become great bodhisattva enlightenment beings because of the practice
on
bodhicata. Really, it's so, so important, necessary. If we like to bring the peace and harmony
to our own self, bodhicata is what we should do. If we like to bring peace and harmony in the
family,
we should practice bodhicata. If we like to bring the peace and harmony in our neighborhood and
village, we should practice the bodhicata. If we like to bring the larger peace to the world,
start bodhicata. That tells something, really tells something so important and so spacious.
Then not bodhicata is in the teachings. It will bring that, that peace and harmony and joy
to all the way to the enlightenment, and we become the Buddha. Our complete potential,
or the Buddha nature, is fully waking up as it has potential, as it has opportunities.
That really revolves, we become the Buddha. That is bodhicata. So therefore, that is Amadhyana. Of
course, you all know, as I said, we are reminded to each other. We are all practitioners. We are
all the Sangha members. We are Sangha members, we are reminded to each other. Even though you heard
this word, I heard this, but repeating is something so special in the teachings, that's what we do,
giant. Even we giant mantras, because it's so important. It makes some imprint, imprint our
channels, our mind streams, saying good things. We're not saying gossips. We're not saying
something,
some skeptical or that will hurt and damage to anyone. We're talking about repeating the follow
teaching of the Buddha, Buddha, and uplifting and ushering, and kind of in a way,
to talking about our own beautiful qualities. That's what really we have. Bodhicata is our nature,
our qualities. So therefore, it's very powerful, beneficial, and benefited to many levels.
And now, with that understanding, I talk about bodhicata. Bodhicata, when you develop in the
teaching, Mahayana teaching, then you all know two bodhicata, reaching bodhicata and actualizing
bodhicata, these two bodhicata. I'm not going to talk too much. Of course, you all know those. I
want to talk about that. But among those two bodhicata, what is mostly important for the
beginner, such as us, which is most important? Wishing bodhicata. What is wishing bodhicata?
Every simply. If I say simply, it is good heart. Good heart that equal to all the sentient beings,
or all the living beings. Good heart. Big good heart. Good heart. And then if we go let it
detail or make that more clarity, it's compassion. It's compassion. Compassion to all beings.
If we go let them all that, then our next step is we all know. Loving kindness. Loving kindness is
compassion. That is essence of the bodhicata. So that is very familiar for us. We all know,
hurt. Even before we practiced dharma, we hurt love and compassion.
Loving kindness, compassion, and good heart. But when we practice dharma, what are we doing?
We're activating, not leaving that in the sleeping domes. We're activating. Bring
glory. Let it shine. We abolish him. We glorify that, that our richness call us.
When we have the good heart and love and compassion, all those, immediately we feel
ourself. More calmer, more peaceful, more happy, more joy. And things are kind of quite good,
everything kind of begins. Really we begin to see appreciating, grateful. This all comes because
symbol our nature. We're tragic to our own nature, our own qualities. That is what it is. This is
the
Buddha teaching. Not just because the Buddha said then we believe him. This is not believing. This
is evidence. We can witness ourself. And we have love and compassion and good heart.
What benefit is this? Immediately we feel. But behind the scene, according to teaching,
teaching of the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, and some of all the linear masters,
it will heal our scars, emotional scars, scars. It will heal those psychological scars.
It's more powerful medicine than any other drugs. It's really something taking such
from the deep, deep. And it will heal the disease, sicknesses. For that reason, in the lineage
teaching we mentioned, one medicine that will take care of everything. One medicine that will
take care of everything. That's what Buddha named. One medicine that will take care of everything.
It's true. Then deep down, deep down that invisible, maybe don't see immediately,
but we purify the obscurations. When you have the bodhicata, generally our anger, our jealousness,
our attachment of those are really kind of like almost hiding behind.
We don't, in bodhicata we have that. We don't have too much powerful, igniting anger,
or jealousness, arrogance, all that. It's all kind of like sneaking out in the behind.
That happened. It's true. We're not just talking that somebody that's happening,
and we're going to get that. No. We have the bodhicata. Love and compassion
is happening right that moment. You all know, or we all know. So that is how powerful it is,
really, bodhicata. And therefore, wishing bodhicata is so important, that love and compassion,
and that kindness, or good heart, simple. It's just so special. And that moment, that moment,
even the samsara world, they will say, oh, that person is a good guy, or good lady. That good lady
and a good guy is not reading as a label on our forehead, or someone. It tells the heart,
heart of those individuals, has something letter, siddling quality than the average people.
So that is bodhicata. That is good heart. Love and kindness, compassion. Now, with this
understanding, in a gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, in lineage teaching, as you all know,
known as when you activated that, then poor, boneless practices. Poor, boneless practices.
Or poor, boneless, what are those? Generally, again, is it something that we all know? We all
heard. And our nature, your nature and my nature, we now bring on the spotlight, not leaving that
behind of all the emotions, the obscurations, all the darkness, we bring that on the light.
What are those? And you all know, poor, boneless. But to be key, before to become poor, boneless,
what is known as, I mean, we all know, is love and kindness, compassion, joy, and equanimities.
Those are known as poor, boneless. Every living being has that. This is not only the
Mahayana practitioners. We all, every living being, before we met Dharma, or is it the teaching,
teach, we have that. It's something our own inherent in nature. Those are what in a gracious
teaching, Buddha Shakyamuni in teaching, say those are the light of Buddha nature.
Love is light of the Buddha nature. Compassion is light of the Buddha nature. And joy is light of
the Buddha nature. And equanimity is light of the Buddha nature. It's dawn, it's light,
it's beams of light is coming. And some people, or some individually, has a little more,
because it's coming more. Some are a little less, because it's hiding behind the
midst of the different, all the different qualities, or different those habit patterns,
or the unkind of healthy habit patterns. But reality, no one is absent of these qualities.
That's what we are teaching, and we know no one is absent. That means include animals,
include all the invisible beings. According to Buddhism, there is invisible beings,
not just only the visible beings. According to Buddhism, we are not just only the human beings.
There are many others, those are known as you all know. We all heard them, we all heard six beings.
According to Buddhism, they are truly existing. They are living beings. They are equally
same as others. What that means? Everyone wants happy. Everyone wants peace. Everyone,
all the beings have six limbs. No one wants suffering. No one wants troubles, misfortunes.
Sadness is same intention. There's no one is. As human beings, we don't want sadness,
we don't want sadness or suffering, troubles, and that we like to be happy, joy, peace.
That's what really we want. I mean, we're all the same. There's no difference. But yet,
reality, how are we going, even what that's our deep desire, but how are we going through?
It's not always fulfilling, not happening always. We struggle, struggling.
"Therefore," her great master, his only said, "all the living beings have the compassion
in both each other. All the mother-sentence beings have the happiness or compassion."
Mother-sentence beings, all they have this. So that means, now when we have this love, compassion,
joy, appetitions that I said to everyone else, but now we have to a little bit
accelerating that love and compassion. We have to accelerate that joy. We have to
accelerate that economy. Accelerating. So that means we have to lift up the level,
not just lift that on ground or where they are. We have to accelerate. We have to bring up.
When we bring up that, how we started that? Then, always in Mahayana teaching said, expand that.
But at the end of time, all of us has this, that for qualities. Those all good.
Love is good. Convention is good. Joy is good. Economic is good. No one will deny that. No one
will dispute that. Everyone will. But this person, the regular one, our love and compassion, joy
is limited. It's partialities. It's just selected. It's just judgmental. That's what is our love.
And that is love and compassion. But even though that is like that, which is good,
definite. But when Mahayana teaching, we say that. Then bring that to the boundless.
Boundless. All that is sometimes translated limitless. What to bring? Limitless.
Bring loving kindness to the limitless. Bring compassion to the limitless.
Bring joy to the limitless. Bring economic to the limitless. Bring all of those you should bring up
.
Bring up and extend what that means. Our love is not kind of selected and targeted love. Our target
is here, all the beings of six realms. All the beings of six realms is our love is spreading.
And we are really sending the love to all the sentient beings. Then compassion is same. Joy is
same. Equanimity is same. That is boundless. That love and compassion and joy and that
equanimity is what is in the teaching said. That is completely based upon the wisdom and non-jud
gmental.
Non-judgmental. And then maybe if you have some realization of the nature is also emptiness.
Loving kindness is emptiness. Compassion is the emptiness. Joy is the emptiness.
Equanimity is emptiness. What that means? Maybe. I'm sure you all know. Many of you know already.
But so few of you don't know. What that means? It means love even though it's so precious,
so special loving kindness. But where is that love? If somebody asks or if you ask yourself or if
we
ask to ourselves where is that my beautiful love loving kindness? Can we show? Can we tell? Can you
bring that? There's nothing really we can bring. We can show. But yet it doesn't mean that when
we don't can't show and we can't bring. It didn't mean that it does not exist. It's here. That's
what we talk. That's what everybody said. I love you. I like you very much. All those expressions.
So reality is empty. That's the way we can expand. Because it's empty. We can expand to all the
living
beings. This in the teaching, both the other teachings such as like absolute body to the
teaching. All the living beings are also like like illusive beings or magic beings. There's no
solid
living beings. That means the Lord solid existing unchangeable living beings.
Everyone is best on that magical status. So same way our love is magical status.
We're extending that to all the living beings. Openly, freely, truly that is known as
boundless love. According to the teaching of the Greek teacher, Buddha Hekamuni. Why is it called
boundless? Because it's boundless. Because the power is boundless. Object is boundless.
And subject is boundless. And benefit is boundless or limitless. What means that object is bound
less?
To whom we object that loving kindness is all the living beings. There is no
numbers of the living beings according to Buddha teaching. So many beings you cannot count.
It's countless. So therefore, this love, our love is going to all those beings.
If I can't count, then six beings. Beings of six realms. It's really going to everyone.
And where is it coming? Form your true heart and mind.
And we can find the subject is boundless. And we look trying to look at the boundary of our mind.
No, I don't think we can find. Nobody can find boundary of our love, our mind.
Even though it's our own mind, you ask, we ask ourselves,
do we see the edge and the boundaries and what? No. Same. It's boundless or limitless.
So therefore, love is coming from there to all. Then power is boundless.
It's according to even though we don't see all the beings. But when we have that really
truly that thought is reaching to all the sentient beings, everyone, like ripple, the Northern
light,
ripple and beams of light is going to every directions without any boundaries.
That's how the power is, is benefiting some degree according our capability and their
readiness situations. And then benefit. So powerful. When we develop road each other,
even one moment, one moment or one incident in the Buddha teaching said it has power to remove
all the sufferings, the cause of sufferings. And what the great master Shanti Deva says,
moment you develop the bodhisattva, that moment you are named as bodhisattvas. That moment.
And the moment we develop the bodhisattva in our heart and mind, that moment we will burn down
the obscuration that which has accumulated so many eons. It will burn down. That's all the
Shanti Deva said. Moment we develop the bodhisattva in our heart, it's like a comments that transm
ute
iron to the gold. Quote, moment that regular kind of unload and not so expensive iron,
and we have no arguments, we transform that to the nugget of gold. Our mind become the mind of
enlightenment, not mind of samsara, not mind of dualities. So those all benefit of this bodhisattva
.
Bodhi. And then that's the beginning. It goes on and on. And all the path and all the movements
realization that all been added up with this bodhisattva, as we develop the bodhisattva,
that much released. So therefore, this bodhisattva is so important and that is loving kindness. And
then the first one kind of having those loving kindness in the heart and mind, and then what?
Compassion. Compassion, boneless compassion, boneless joy, and boneless
equanimity. You all know these things. I mean, we all received this teaching so many times.
As I said earlier, I'm reminding to all of us, each other, really that. So we can activate it
even short time for two minutes, three minutes, five minutes. It really has power. It has power,
visibly power, invisibly. It has such big power to purify the obscuration, to accumulate the
merits of that. That is so. And this is also known as this poor boneless is how we develop the
wishing
bodhisattva. It's in our mind, in our heart. But now, when you activate that, because of that,
with this loving kindness, this poor boneless, then we take bodhisattva vows.
We take bodhisattva and ceremonies. And when we have the bodhisattva and then we,
or even you really have the vows of bodhisattva, when you see this value and importance, activating
that bodhisattva, loving the compassion and joy and the equanimity, then with that intention,
then with that thought, activating those intention into the action, physical action, verbal actions
,
and as well as mental actions, those all known as actualizing bodhisattva. You're actualizing
the bodhisattva. And then according to you, or as you develop bodhisattva and what is, then you
develop all your moving and accumulating all those six paramatas. Six paramatas, it looks like
transcendental, transcendental practice of those practices. It looks very fancy. I can't vote
transcendental, six paramatas, all that. But all best on this simple good heart, love and
compassion,
joy and an equanimity, that's really best on all that. That's it. I think it's all. And the six
transcendental or six paramatas, of course you all know, at least the names missed. And
fourth, the generosity transcendental or transcendental practice of the generosity. Second,
the transcendental practice of the moralities. Third is transcendental practice of the patience
or the tolerance. And fourth is transcendental practice of the joyful effort to the virtues,
virtues. And fifth is transcendental practice of the concentrations or meditations. And then
sixth is transcendental practice of the wisdom. What does that mean? Wisdom. Wisdom that see
clearly
where things are as it is. And wisdom that see also nature of the everything where things are.
Nature. See the way things are appears, but see also where things are, reality-less.
Seeing that, that is wisdom, exactly where things are. So those are. That was all practice best
on these four boneless practices. Practices. This four boneless practices is the vehicle
and four boneless practice is the is the protein and four boneless practice is fiber.
And four boneless practice is vitamins, multiple vitamins to reach Buddhahood.
Buddhahood also looks so fancy and so difficult. Reality level, according to teaching,
we discovered our basic nature as it is now. Without any obscuration, without any cover-up.
We clearly discovered that. That's it. That's nothing else. We return, what many times in
teaching said, we return back to our ordinal dominion. We back to our ordinal status.
We know the interference of the one's own deed of dualities. We reach that. That is Buddhahood.
That is enlightenment. That is, that moment our bodhicata, mind we like to become
the wisdom of the enlightenment. Then we become. That's it. Wisdom of the enlightenment.
That is what it is. So, in order to do that, we're here.
The great master, his own, you said, the bodhicata of comparing to all the sentient beings,
all the beings, as much as we can, have the bodhicata and activating that. And of course,
due to our habit patterns of the many lifetimes, many times our bodhicata, our compassion,
loving kindness, won't stay all the time. This is not something that we don't have the love and
compassion because the habit pattern of our habit pattern of the duality is so strong,
so saturated, really so saturated. It's so easy to come that this habit patterns of duality,
so easy. We don't have to make any effort to have the habit pattern of duality that we know.
I mean, you know, me know. No. It just easily comes. But when we explore our own true nature,
because it's hidden behind this habit pattern of duality, we have to make effort.
Even though it's our own nature, we have to make effort. We have to have courage.
We have to go on and on. By that time, what are we doing? We're changing the course.
We're not running an obedient of our old habit pattern of the duality.
Really, we see that what is making this habit pattern of our duality is making to us,
to myself, to the others, up to our loved ones and all the beings. It is troublemakers.
It is disturbances. It is obstacles, making. But yet, because we sold, according to a graduate
teacher, Buddha Kya Kya Muni, we've been so many lifetimes in this samsara, so many lifetimes.
Even there's no numbers. That's what I mean, you know, you heard those teachings. We are here too.
I'm repeating that what I heard. No numbers. That time, we completely saturated, decated
by the force of our own habit pattern of dualities. So we become, completely contrary in a way,
habit pattern of duality becomes so natural for us. And our own true nature, loving kindness,
compassion, and joy and appreciation almost become aliens. Aliens. And we have to, to bring,
to touch those qualities, we have to make efforts. That's what great master, Buddha Kya Kya Muni,
lay out those six paramata practices, how to defeat that habit patterns of the dualities,
and bring forth back to our dominion or our places. We continue to do that. But what great
master Chanti Deva said, "If we work for heart with joy and a courage and commitment, there's
nothing is not, nothing is difficult. Everything will become easy." As we are completely
familiar and is carried by the force of duality. And that we can tell. Duality is so easy to come
for us. As I said earlier, we don't have to make any effort. We don't have to make any emotions,
to come emotions, any effort. It just comes. We can say it's almost spontaneous.
But, on the other hand, our own true love, compassion, or natural love and compassion,
wisdom, we have to make effort to reveal. We make that effort to reveal. That is known as
following the path. Path to discovering our own true nature. And therefore,
again, as I said, you all know. You all know so many times. The best thing, the best of
to discover our own nature is just start what we have now. What that means? We have love,
compassion, and joy, and the economy we have right now. Some believe we have that. It's not
something
that we have to learn the new things, and something strange things we have to break.
What we have, that is what we should learn, and develop, and increase, really. If we do that,
that is called practicing. Practicing dharma, and that practice is spiritual.
Buddha teaching is not something that strange we think we have to do, or alien something, or new
idea, new things we have to learn. Touch best. Buddha teaching is touch best. Our own nature.
That is beginning. That is starting momentum. That is a way to the confidence and the fulfillment.
Really, one's own nature. And that is our goal to fulfill all that. And that is for that reason.
And if we keep this bodhic citta with love and compassion, that is one of the best wealth
of the dharma, practitioners. Really, we always become the reach of heart, love, and compassion.
Joy. All that comes, even though on the visible level, immediately, and then,
benefit is so tremendous, and so powerful. It is working. Those are what the teaching said,
and that is what'sness by so many great masters and great practitioners, and citta who reach
enlightenment. They practice this. They follow with this. They see this value, and important,
and benefits. Really. So therefore, I mean, this, for that reason, it is one of the great wealth
of the practitioners. It's like life support of the practitioners,
to reach enlightenment. And that is my talk for today. And thank you very much, everyone,
again, for participating. Thank you. Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you. Thank you.
Then we do, again, short dedication.
Short dedication, that which is, again, we have this page, page 32, we do that. And after that,
then, as I said, we do the healing practices. By this merit, may all, may it defeat the enemy
wrong drawing. From the stormy waves of the birth, the organ, the sickness, and the death.
From the ocean of the samsara, may I free all beings.
Okay. Now we do the, the holy mental practices. If you have these texts, we start right to the
practices. And page one, we already did a seven line prayer, the prayers. So we started right there
.
And again, this healing practice with, thank you to all living beings who are really sick now,
who are having so much difficulties. And the body in the Buddha teachings is sick of the,
all the different things. As we did prayer here, what did I get in praise? Old age and what it said
here. And what in the teaching, I'm sorry, here. What in the teaching said here, that the, and this
defeat the enemy wrong drawing. From the stormy waves of the birth, the organ, the sickness, the
death. Those are the really, everyone is experienced. And the foundation cause of those in
the Buddha teachings is a negative emotions. Negative emotions, negative emotions are our
habit patterns that well causing. So we really do this healing practice, thinking of all living
beings. They free from the sickness of the body where they're going through troubles with that.
And the plastic cause of those in a deep, completely free the hill. So I extended the
body together as we talk and then we do this practice again. Thank you.